Question 2 above – I would be lying if I said that there was any awareness of the program in the industry. 
In-fact there is almost none. Most people or recruiters do not see any difference between SE student and a CS student 
and its same for many other courses. CMU has a million kinds of special programs with a million degrees, no-one can possibly 
remember that. You cannot blame the industry for this since Software Engineering is an abused term. 
Of-course a Software Engineer right? Most of the placements and career fairs at CMU are oriented towards hiring Entry-Level or 
Senior-Level programmers and for people looking for jobs in the positions I mentioned in Question 2 
other sources like LinkedIn and Alumni Network work better. So if you want to choose a career path in Project Management 
or Product Management careers fairs might not work so well for you. Most MSE/MSIT students end up taking up jobs as a Software Programmers at the end of the day 
(of-course there is absolutely nothing wrong with it) but the program’s core curriculum (which is very heavy btw) 
is not designed to teach you programming or make you the best algorithms guy out there. It assumes you are already know that stuff.
I have definitely heard that SE students do very well once they are in their jobs and a lot 
of learnings in the curriculum actually help in real life working environment. 
Does this mean the program by itself inherently helps you get a Software Engineer job at Google? 
Of-course not. No program does that. It depends on your abilities.
Another important thing to ask yourself is ask Why did you apply to the MSE program? 
I talked earlier about learning objective and the role you want to get into. For example: 
y careers interests are strongly for a Product Manager role and I personally think I learnt 
a lot in this program to do justice to that role in the industry. But the challenge from a placements aspect 
is there are few openings for these kinds of positions and of-course you have to be best of the best. 
Remember, no-one really hires a MSE graduate as a Project Manager – who has only 2 years of experience as a 
developer before, has not taken any project management courses here at CMU and or done some significant project 
to prove his/her ability in that role. Unless it’s small company or maybe you are an exception.
So if you are really passionate about getting into one of these roles or the core curriculum then 
the program is totally for you. If you just want to come to the US and get a job please do not waste so much money. 
For instance I was very motivated to learn about Product Development, 
Software Lifecycle Management, System Architecture and 
Quality Management since it aligned with my goal of being a Product Manager so it turned out to be very useful.
I had to honestly say all the good and the bad so you can make the right decision for yourself. 
On a more statistical note, yes almost all of the MSE/MSIT manage to get good jobs. Of-course you have to work hard for it. 
You are at CMU – the competition is high. You maybe the smart frog in a small pond where you are coming from. 
Well, Welcome to the Ocean. There are no internship opportunities in this program since there is summer semester and 
you have to work on your Studio project.